# Muthene
# Improving therapeutic synergy score predictions with adverse effects using multi-task heterogeneous network embedding 

__The accepted version link: [https://academic.oup.com/bib/article/24/1/bbac564/6958504]__

__How to use it:__

__Our Test Environment (Windows or Linux, the higher environment version beyond this might be also feasible):__
* __Python 3.6.13__
* __Pytorch 1.10.2__
* __CUDA tool kit 11.3.1__
* __dgl-cuda11.3__

Step1. __Download our collected and compiled dataset from https://drive.google.com/file/d/11xEGdgZLXlcxUfjajbrA3eSgIMT0-evr/view?usp=sharing, and put it into your specified file folder as the original data folder. The original data folder is used to generate the model input for each independent repeat.__

Main Raw Data:
* __CCLE_expression.csv:__ Downloaded original DepMap gene expression data.
* __drugcomb_alldruginfo_dict.pickle:__ Collected information of involved drugs.
* __drugcomb_synergy_score.csv:__ Collected drug-drug-cell line synergy score samples.
* __twosides_side_effect.csv:__ Collected drug-drug adverse effect samples.
* __drug_target_interaction.csv:__ Collected drug-target interaction samples.
* __target_target_interaction.csv:__ Collected target-target interaction samples.

Step2. __Run data_processing_updated_1.ipynb and data_processing_updated_2.ipynb step/block by step/block to generate the model input for independent repeats from the Raw Data (in the original data folder). In addition, we have provided a group of data (generated by these two .ipynb files) for an independent repeat named as 'fold1' in above link).__

Step3. __Follow the instruction described in each following .py file, to read the model input generated by above two .ipynb files (e.g., files in provided 'fold1') and  run&evaluate different variants described in the manuscript (after training the model, these .py files will automatically evaluate the model performance on the test set):__
  * __NEW_HNEMA_evaluation_ECFP6_CCLE_withAE.py:__ the implementation of standard Muthene using ECFP6 + selected 60 cell lines (described by CCLE gene expression data) with the adverse effect prediction module.
  * __NEW_GIN_evaluation_ECFP6_CCLE_withAE.py:__ the implementation of the Muthene variant using GIN (encoding drug molecular graphs) + selected 60 cell lines (described by CCLE gene expression data) with the adverse effect prediction module.
  * __NEW_HNEMA_evaluation_ECFP6_CCLE_withoutAE.py:__ the implementation of Muthene variant using ECFP6 + selected 60 cell lines (described by CCLE gene expression data) without the adverse effect prediction module.

__A running example (including training and evaluation):__

python NEW_HNEMA_evaluation_ECFP6_CCLE_withAE.py --root-prefix './fold1/'

(--root-prefix: the file folder storing the generated model input, e.g., fold1)

__How to predict different types of synergy scores:__

There is a bulit-in hyper-parameter in each above .py file named predicted_te_type, set it to 1, 2, 3, 4 can make the model predict ZIP, Loewe, HSA, and Bliss, respectively.

Instead of the framework name in the manuscript (i.e., Muthene), we use HNEMA (Heterogeneous Network Embedding with Meta-path Aggregation) here to define the function.
